my name is Linda Swenson and I'm from
Mill Creek Washington I didn't even know
that I had scoliosis until I had a
kidney stone and the doctors at the
emergency room took out an x-ray and
they said my goodness you you've got
quite a curved spine so right away I
went to a spine specialist and he said
it wasn't bad enough to operate on so
then a couple years later I started to
really have pain in my spine and I went
to another specialist and he was really
good I had probably about four different
cortisone shots throughout the next
three years and each time I got a shot
it really did help and each one would
last about a year and then I start
getting this pain again severe pain so
then he suggested I see a specialist
because he said really another course in
shut it wasn't going to help me and it
had gotten pretty severe to the point
where I was taking a walk with my son
one day and we I felt like I was walking
through mud my feet just would not go
heel to toe so then that's when the
doctors at what you have to see a
specialist and so he recommended dr. of
skiing linda was referred to us with
pretty severe scoliosis and she had
gotten to the point where she had a real
neurologic deficit and she was in
excruciating pain there's no question
that there's a group of patients who
will benefit from having surgery like
Linda but we like to exhaust all other
resources before we even consider doing
a big surgery like that I was certainly
scared orden frightened of going in for
such a major operation dr. eschewing and
really explained and showed me photos
and gave me the information tell me that
really this is the prettiest fear and
you really should have the operation or
I could end up in a wheelchair not being
able to walk it off as you can see on
the preoperative x-ray there's a severe
scoliotic her going off to one side the
deformity was corrected in two stages in
the first stage we go in and release the
spine anteriorly
and open up the channels where the
nerves go through and then the stage 2
involves completely trying to pull the
spine back over the post-operative
x-rays show the correction and you can
see how straight her spine is now you
can see a big difference to so before is
where she was hunched over and had a
foot drop now she's straight and foot
drops gone there's a bit of recovery I'm
trying to build up my stamina a little
bit so I can walk along the beach this
summer cuz I love to hike you know she's
walking now for her leg strength is
almost back to normal but what makes me
even happier is the fact that she's so
happy and his pain free and is walking
around just as she did five years ago
dr. skiing and the nurses and doctors
here I was over delighted with everybody
I would totally recommend Swedish for
anyone who needed to come in and have an
operation it was great I mean the people
here are great
you